# Distinguishing_SIDM_From_CDM_With_LISA
This code is used to determine the number of massive black hole mergers that would need to be observed by LISA to distinguish dark matter that has non-gravitational self interactions from dark matter that does not, due to the delaying effect of self-interacting dark matter on massive black hole mergers. This is a proof-of-concept study that should be followed by future work with a larger simulation suite and more realistic modeling, such as a velocity-dependent cross section. 

In this work we use simulations of two Milky Way - mass galaxies to build sets of cosmic times and mass ratios for massive black hole mergers. These are used to construct cumulative distribution functions (CDFs) which are inverted to produce inverse CDFs. These are used in inverse transform sampling to generate sets of cosmic times and mass ratios to simulate what LISA might see. We then use a KS test to compare cosmic times and mass ratios for the two dark matter models, varying the number of mergers observed over the course of the LISA mission. This allows us to determine the number of mergers LISA would need to observe over its lifetime to distinguish between dark matter that has self-interactions (SIDM) and dark matter that does not (CDM), when comparing either cosmic times or mass ratios of mergers. In this work, we seek to obtain an average p-value that is at least two standard deviations below a significance threshold of 0.05, to ensure that one could expect to obtain a p-value below 0.05. 

This repository contains a Jupyter notebook that conducts this analysis for comparing cosmic times, and another notebook for comparing mass ratios. One can adjust a line near the top of each file to alter the number of mergers observed by LISA. The script then computes an average p-value and the standard deviation for the p-value, where inverse transform sampling is used to generate 10,000 sets of cosmic times and mass ratios that are compared. We also include a Jupyter notebook to produce p-value plots, and a Jupyter notebook for estimating SNR (signal-to-noise ratio) ranges, as would be seen by LISA. 

Note that the relevant data (the cosmic times and mass ratios of mergers in the simulations) is included in the notebooks. 
